# Azure DevOps AZ-400 Notes

## Azure Log Analytics

Integration with external IT systems such as ServiceNow, System Center, Provance and Cherwell can be configured using IT Service Management Connector ([ITSCM](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/itsmc-overview))

*Azure services like Azure Log Analytics and Azure Monitor provide tools to detect, analyze, and troubleshoot problems with your Azure and non-Azure resources. But the work items related to an issue typically reside in an ITSM product or service. ITSMC provides a bi-directional connection between Azure and ITSM tools to help you resolve issues faster.*

# Azure Resource Manager (ARM) Templates

To modularize large ARM templates and improve maintainability you should use `Linked templates`. For example, you can point to individual ARM templates stored  in source control, i.e. GitHub and use to them via a URL specified in the ARM template definition. Use the templateLink property, defining the Uri and version of the template.

```json
"variables": {
        "linked-template": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/neilpeterson/arm-deployment-demo/master/linked-tempate/artifacts/storage.json",
        "linked-template-two": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/neilpeterson/arm-deployment-demo/master/linked-tempate/artifacts/identity.json"
    },
    "resources": [
        {
            "name": "storage",
            "type": "Microsoft.Resources/deployments",
            "apiVersion": "2019-10-01",
            "properties": {
                "mode": "Incremental",
                "templateLink": {
                    "uri": "[variables('linked-template')]",
                    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0"
                },
                "parameters": {
                    "name": {"value": "[parameters('name')]"},
                    "location": {"value": "[parameters('location')]"}
                }
            }
        },
```

In contrast, `Nested templates` enables you to store multiple templates but in a single file which is potentially harder to maintain.

## Source control

For teams new to Git and branching, it is recommended to take the approach that they should be creating feature branches for features and bug fixes.

`Azure Repos` support both centralised and decentralised version control systems, allowing teams to use either `Team Foundation Version Control (TFVC)` or `git`.

## Container Scanning

`Docker Trusted Registry` is a commercial image storage solution included in Docker Enterprise Edition, it provides security features for scanning images in your repositories and verify that they are free from vulnerabilities.

Whilst other registries do not provide scanning, you could scan for vulnerabilities in CI pipelines before publishing to a container registry. Other registries include, `Docker Registry`,`Docker Hub` and `Azure Container Registry` ([ACR](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/)).

## Azure Container Registry

When using a service principal name to grant access via headless authentication, the `AcrPush` role needs to be assigned to service accounts to write images to the registry.

To automate the update process of Docker images that serve as base images that are frequently updated, you should use `Azure Container Registry tasks` to rebuild images automatically when they are updated.

## Creating containers

Azure CLI
```sh
az container create --resource-group MyResourceGroup --name myapp --image myimage:latest --environment-variables key1=value1 key2=value2 --secrets key="12345" --secrets-mount-path /app/secret
```

## Using Docker in pipelines

The Docker task service makes working with the Docker Registry service easier, a mandatory parameter of the task is Command, this parameter enables you to define the task you want to perform, such as `buildAndPush`, `build`, `push`, `login` and `logout`.

## Feature Flags Strategy

Implement a delivery strategy using feature flags.

1. Design the features functionality
2. Create a release strategy
3. Build the release
4. Test the feature
5. Release the feature

## Package Management

When creating a project that uses a NuGet package from a secured feed, you need to give the `Contributor` role to the build identity to access the package at run time. The permission enables any project in the build pipeline to access packages in the feed.

The same `Contributor` role can be given to the Project Collection Build Service if it is used as the build identity to access the feed.

`NuGet.config` files determine the behaviour of NuGet packages.

To distribute `Node.js` packages, you should create a new feed in Azure Artifacts to store the builds, configure an `.npmrc` file in the root of your project updating the registry property to point to your Azure Artifacts feed, then run `npm` publish during the build pipeline which will read from the `.npmrc` file to determine where to publish the package.

`Owner` and `Contributor` roles grant users permission to push packages to feeds.

## WhiteSource

To ensure that companies that use open source components are using ones with approved terms and conditions, you can use WhiteSource to enable this and both a `blacklist` of automatically rejected licenses and a `whitelist` of automatically approved licenses should be defined.

To integrate Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) with WhiteSource you need to create and configure a connection to enable WhiteSource to monitor the licenses and compliance of open source software.

## Azure Policy

Azure Policy is set of rules and policies that ensure that resources in a subscription adhere to a give configuration. You can create a policy that enforces that all resources contain a specific tag. Which is useful to ensure that resources are tagged with the team that are responsible for those resources.

## Automate container image build and testing

`Multi-step` tasks is the most efficient way to build and test container images in Azure DevOps.

## Licensing

Azure DevOps provides **five** `Basic` licenses for free, this allows access to all features except `Test Manager`.

`Basic + Test Plan` provide the additional Test Manager access on top of the standard `Basic` license.

`Stakeholder` licenses are limited to only work with work items, they cannot access code repositories, stakeholders are not purchased and are unlimited, used by Product Owners who are able to manage the backlog and work items. 

## Publishing Code Coverage

To ensure that code coverage results are made available in the Azure Pipelines test summary for a Java Application that uses Azure Pipelines, you can either, add a Publish code coverage results task or enable the code coverage tool in Maven.

## Branching Strategy

For a company to use trunk based development they should use feature branches, committing new code to the feature branch which can then be pushed. To merge the code into trunk, first a pull request should be created and on completion will merge changes from the feature branch into the main branch.

## Migration from TFS to Azure DevOps

To keep work item history and revisions you should use the Data Migration Tool for Azure DevOps to migrate data into Azure DevOps, beforehand you should upgrade TFS to the latest version for compatibility.

## Load Testing

To run load tests, you can use Apache JMeter, you should create a new Apache JMeter test, upload the jmx file into the test script field, upload the parameters.csv in supporting files and run the test.

## Securing Azure Subscriptions

Security teams can use Secure DevOps Kit for Azure (AzSK) to secure Azure subscriptions, to ensure that ARM templates used for deployments is validated you should install the AzSK CICD Extension from the marketplace and add an AzSK ARM Template Checker Task to the deployment.

## Protecting the master branch

To stop developers from committing directly to master, you should add a group of people as automatic reviewers and lock the master branch to avoid direct commits.

## Using Maven packages from Azure Pipelines

To use Maven packages in a pipeline, you should upload the settings.xml file to the Azure Pipelines library which allows you to securely store credentials and secrets for use in build or release pipelines, you should include the feed repository configuration in the `pom.xml` file, you should add a Download secure file task to the pipeline to download the settings.xml file from the Azure Pipelines library and copy that file to the ~/.m2 directory in the pipeline so that Maven can read the credentials in the settings.xml file to publish the package to the feed.

## Pre-deployment triggers

Manual Only - It is not linked with any artifact or previous stage
After Release - Linked to an artifact and will start when that artifact becomes available
After Stage - Starts when the previous stage has completed

## Azure Pipeline Builds

When multiple developers are frequently triggering build runs, you can enable the Batch option option on the build pipeline trigger to reduce the number of builds by allowing the system to wait until a build is finished and then queue another build to handle any changes that were not included in the previous build. The option is called `Batch changes while a build is in progress`.

If builds rely on external devices, the health signals from those devices can be monitored by enabling pre and post deployment release gate conditions.

*Gates allow automatic collection of health signals from external services, and then promote the release when all the signals are successful at the same time or stop the deployment on timeout. Typically, gates are used in connection with incident management, problem management, change management, monitoring, and external approval systems.*

## Configure SonarQube

SonarQube is an open-source platform developed by SonarSource for continuous inspection of code quality to perform automatic reviews with static analysis of code to detect bugs, code smells, and security vulnerabilities on 20+ programming languages. SonarQube offers reports on duplicated code, coding standards, unit tests, code coverage, code complexity, comments, bugs, and security vulnerabilities.

To configure an Azure DevOps organization with a SonarQube server, you should generate an authentication token in SonarQube, which should be saved when you create a service endpoint in Azure DevOps, you should also install the SonarQube extension from the marketplace in your organization to enable SonarQube-related tasks in your build pipelines.

## App Center

Developers use App Center to Build, Test, and Distribute applications.

To grant access for a user group to pre-release builds of an application at the organization level, you should use a Shared Distribution Group which can be used to grant users access to multiple apps without having to create distribution groups for each app.

An application that is configured with the App Center Software Development Kit (SDK) to report events to App Center Analytics can be centralised with analytics gathered by Application Insights hosted in an Azure Subscription. You should link the Azure subscription with the App Center, which will enable you to export App Center Analytics to Application Insights.

To run a UI tests built in Xamarin.UITest for a Xamarin app.

```sh
appcenter test run uitest --app "company1/cube" --devices "company1/stable" --app-path "pathToFile.apk" --test-series "master" --locale "en_US" --build-dir "uiTest/bin/release"
```

`xcuitest` and `espresso` are test frameworks built for the native platform, XCUITest for iOS and Espresso for Android.

To integrate App Center Analytics with your app you should use the below code to register App Center Analytics to understand user behaviour and customer engagement, as well as App Center Diagnostics to generate automatic crash reports every time your app crashes and send this to the App Center the next time the user starts the app.

```
AppCenter.Start(
    getApplication(),"{secret}",
    Analytics.class, Crashes.class
)
```

Other classes available, `Distribute.class` to install and distribute new versions of the app when distributed, `Push.class` to enable you to send push notifications, `Data.class` used to manage, persist and sync application data and `Auth.class` used to integrate native applications with Azure AD B2C and third party identity providers.

## Azure Monitor

To track updates operating system updates and patching, you should create health notifications in Azure Monitor via the Azure portal. Health notifications are part of Azure Service Health and can also be used to manage planned updated.

Azure Monitor can be used to collect, store logs and metrics for nearly all Azure services and centralize them to create alerts and queries, including App Service and Azure SQL Database metrics. In contrast to Application Insights which can only stores application metrics and cannot store SQL Database metrics as well.

You should use the Insights feature of Azure Monitor to provide monitoring of applications and services on platforms such as .NET and Node.js.

To ensure that alerts are sent out when a system resource goes down, you should configure Azure Monitor to monitor Azure Resources only.

## Microservices

Micorservices can be provisioned an orchestrated using Azure Service Fabric cluster resource manager, to ensure that the environment runs efficiently you should perform network load balancing.

Azure Kubenetes Service (AKS) can be used for container creation and management

*The kubelet is the primary "node agent" that runs on each node. It can register the node with the apiserver using one of: the hostname; a flag to override the hostname; or specific logic for a cloud provider.*

*The kubelet works in terms of a PodSpec. A PodSpec is a YAML or JSON object that describes a pod. The kubelet takes a set of PodSpecs that are provided through various mechanisms (primarily through the apiserver) and ensures that the containers described in those PodSpecs are running and healthy.*

To mitigate voluntary disruptions to service to maintain high availability, you should `define a pod disruption budget`.

Use the `describe` command to get information from Kubernetes to troubleshoot why pods are not being created as expected.

Azure Service Fabric and Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) are cloud optimise services designed to run microservices workloads and provide orchestration between the services using a service mesh.

## Azure Site Recovery

Azure Site Recovery should be used to lift and shift applications to Azure whilst maintaining application availability. It does so by replicating the VM from your internal data centre to Azure, when it is ready, you failover to the new Azure VM to complete the migration. It provides a low learning curve to moving existing applications to the cloud and is the recommended practice for lift and shift migrations.

## ARM Template Deployment

Azure PowerShell Module
```powershell
New-AzResourceGroup -Name ExampleGroup -Location "Central US"
New-AzResourceGroupDeployment `
  -Name ExampleDeployment `
  -ResourceGroupName ExampleGroup `
  -TemplateUri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/master/101-storage-account-create/azuredeploy.json `
  -TemplateParameterFile parameters.json
```

Azure CLI
```bash
az group create --name ExampleGroup --location "Central US"
az deployment group create \
  --name ExampleDeployment \
  --resource-group ExampleGroup \
  --template-uri "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/master/101-storage-account-create/azuredeploy.json" \
  --parameters storageAccountType=Standard_GRS
```

## Release Notes

To produce release notes that includes a summary of the work items in the release, you should install the Generate release notes cross-platform extension from the marketplace which can generate release notes in markdown format as well as adding a generate release notes task to the release pipeline.

## Azure DevOps Team Strategy

Company merging - Create several projects, with own development team and limited visibility.
Large company with multiple dev teams - One Organization with many projects and many teams

## Connection String

```sh
az webapp config connection-string set -g MyResourceGroup -n MyUniqueApp -t mysql \
    --slot testing --slot-setting mysql1='Server=myServer;Database=myDB;Uid=myUser;Pwd=myPwd;' 
```

## Workflows between Legacy and Modern Apps

Logic Apps should be used provide integration workflows between legacy and modern applications as they provide prebuilt connectors that make collaboration easy.

## Disadvantages of Microsoft-hosted agents

You lose the ability to install independent software for builds and deployments unlike with self hosted agents and also Microsoft hosted agents do not support caching or saving configurations which makes them slower than self hosted agents.

# Configure ServiceNow in Azure Pipelines

ServiceNow can be used for change management in production environments, to automatically create a new change request and verify the change request approval before a new application is deployed, you should Install Azure Pipeline in Service Now and install the ServiceNow Change Management extension in Azure DevOps, create a new ServiceNow service connection in Azure DevOps and add a ServiceNow Change Management task as a pre-deployment gate.

## Azure Boards

If you need to link commits to work items in Azure DevOps, you should include AB# followed by the work item id in every commit message to ensure that traceability against work items. The pattern used is AB#{123}

## Azure Security Center

To black list IP addresses to prevent attacks against Azure resources, you should use an Access Control List (ACL) to permit or deny IP addresses.